Let us familiarize ourselves with the radar.
Radars have been in use since 1930's,
when they were primarily used by the military to detect enemy aircraft.
Since then, radar technology has come a long way.
Today radars are increasingly being used as automotive sensor for
advanced driver systems and self-driving initiators.
Advancements in the RF technology and digital signal processing have made it
possible to design efficient radars at low cost and in miniature size.
The radar's capability to determine the targets at long range with accurate velocity
and spatial information makes it an important sensor for self-driving applications.
Its capability to sense objects in
dark and poor weather condition also helps it
cover the shortcomings of lidar and camera sensors.
Hey, check this out,
"The 40-year-old challenge for automotive radars."
Today, most of the cars are equipped with radar sensors for adaptive cruise control,
too close warnings, and side car detections.
But the future self-driving cars would be using more and more of
these sensors to generate a complete awareness of the surroundings.
As you can see in the image,
for level 4 and 5 autonomy,
a radar will not just detect but will also classify targets.
Hence, generating high resolution imaging.
Okay, so first things first.
How does the radar work?
A radar emits electromagnetic waves.
These waves are reflected if they meet an obstacle.
After reflection, when they are received again at their place of origin,
that shows that there is an obstacle in the propagation direction.
The frequency of electromagnetic energy use for radar is unaffected by darkness.
It penetrates through flog and clouds.
This permits radar system to determine the position of road targets,
that are invisible to the naked eye because of distance, darkness, or weather.
The same principle allows the cars of today to have adaptive cruise control.
Using the radar, a car can autonomously maintain its distance as well as speed,
and can apply brakes to avoid collisions.
Okay, so here's an actual commercial radar,
a long-range radar from Bosch.
Do you see how tiny it is?
The black covering on the top is the radium that
makes the radar weather proof without impacting its performance.
Then, we have the printed circuit board which houses the antenna and RF assemblies.
Under that is a Digital Signal Processing Unit.
Check this out, a radar chip-set. Yes, that's right.
You can hold it between your fingertips.
Getting to the hottest debate in the self-driving world.
Lidar or radar?
One can find many articles comparing lidar and radar.
But really, these sensors are kind of complimentary to each other.
It is true that lidar can generate a high resolution imaging and radar cannot,
but radar gives you a highly accurate velocity estimation.
Where lidar fails in bad weather conditions like rain or fog,
radar due to its wavelength size is never hindered by the weather.
A major concern with lidar is its cost.
A lidar can cost a car manufacturer more than a couple of grands,
while radar sets them back by a few $100 only.
No more wondering why [inaudible] doesn't like lidar.